Function expressions, on the one hand, function declarations on the other.
This can get quite confusing, so I just thought you might throw some examples at you.
Let's first look at a function declaration because that's what we used to function declaration.
And let's just have a functional dog that console logs sound.
What's the first step with the function declaration?
We have to tell JavaScript that we're about to define a function, then we need to call our function
something.
So let's call it Doug.
We need the parentheses because we may want to post arguments to later and then we define our code in
the curly braces.
They say sound equals Wolf.
And then all we want to do is want a console log the sound to the screen.
And to execute or to invoke this function, what do we need to do?
That's right.
We need to use our same name and they include parentheses.
And then you go console logs.
What's?
So this is a function declaration, we've been seeing a lot of function declarations.
We should be comfortable with that banner, but what about a function expression?
Well, let's have a look.
Function function?
Expression.
Well, the biggest syntactical difference in how it looks is that we're putting it into a variable and
it's an anonymous function.
Let's have a look.
So let's define kit.
And that can be a function.
But now, in this case, bear in mind, we haven't called our function anything, and that's why it's
called an anonymous function in the function declaration above.
We had function and then we called our function dog.
Yeah, we just have a function that we are assigning it to a variable called cat.
So it's almost the same thing.
It's just structured a bit differently.
And let's do the same thing later.
Some equal.
M..
And we want to console log the song.
Nothing new there.
And to execute a function expression again, we just use the name of our variable.
And we close it in parentheses M..
Whoo!
So then you probably thinking, okay, cool, they both look kind of similar.
I feel the same.
Why have to waste to declare a function as in this?
Just any more confusion?
Well, it isn't.
It isn't.
It depends what you want to do with these functions.
And like we just said in the lecture, the main difference is the timing of when you can use these functions.
Let me show you.
So this just scroll down.
The Nimmi just say timing is the main difference.
So function declarations can be used in the entire scope.
And what I mean by that, let's just say function.
Declarations.
Can be used in its entire scope.
And yeah, we're just going to be dealing with the global scope.
And I'll show you an example.
This just returned I'll say hi function and said if we want to pass in the user's name and just console,
log the welcome message.
So the first step with the function declaration is to tell JavaScript recreating a function by the function
keyword we call it, say hi.
We call it whatever we want.
In this instance, we want to pass in a name.
And then we write our code in between these curly braces.
And all we want to do here is we want a console log and we're going to use template literals and we're
just going to say hi.
Reasonable function.
And let's invoke the function.
Let's see what happens.
Say hi and we pass in, Tom.
And yes, it's going to console.log, hi, Tom.
But let me ask you this, what happens if we executed that function before we even started the function?
What's going to happen?
Well, look at the comment, function declarations can be used in its entire scope here global.
So if we move the say item to the top.
It's going to work because the possum, when it hits this function, when it's passing the file, even
before it's executed and rendered it to the screen, it's going to have already stored the same high
function.
It's going to know exactly what its function is.
So when you go and call it, even before we've defined it in our code, it will be valid code.
What happens with function, expressions or function expressions?
Function expressions are only accessible.
And usable when it is defined and what I mean by this.
Well, let's create exactly the same function instead of say, hi, let's just call it say by.
So we going to say say bye.
Equals function, an anonymous function, because now we have a name dysfunction.
It's going to be passed in the name.
And here we just want to console log.
Using template literals by and they name.
Again, a very simple function.
And if you wanting to execute, say by.
With the word Tom.
It works everything at this point works, and you wouldn't have any preference to use one or the other
in this scenario.
But what happens if we execute or we try and execute, say by the fall?
We've declared the variable before we declare the function.
Let's have a look.
Let's move this up.
And look, we're being straight in Iraq, say by is not defined, and that is the point I'm trying to
make with this.
We cannot access function expressions before it is declared.
Just won't let us happen.
I don't know.
It just won't just got to deal with it.
Cool.
And let's carry on.